EmersonBR commented on 3 Mar 2017 •
edited
My operating system is (include version):
Windows 10 using Putti to access Pi
I installed Certbot with (certbot-auto, OS package manager, pip, etc):
certbot-auto
I ran this command and it produced this output:
Failed to connect to xx.xx.xx.xxx:443 for TLS-SNI-01
challenge
Certbot's behavior differed from what I expected because:
it did not connect to my PI from DNS
Here is a Certbot log showing the issue (if available):
Logs are stored in /var/log/letsencrypt by default. Feel free to redact domains, e-mail and IP addresses as you see fit.
Obtaining a new certificate
Performing the following challenges:
tls-sni-01 challenge for xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.duckdns.org
Waiting for verification...
Cleaning up challenges
Failed authorization procedure. emersonhass.duckdns.org (tls-sni-01): urn:acme:error:connection :: The server could not connect to the client to verify the domain :: Failed to connect to xx.xx.xx.xxx.xx:443 for TLS-SNI-01 challenge
IMPORTANT NOTES:
If you lose your account credentials, you can recover through
e-mails sent to xxxxxxxxxxx@gmail.com.
The following errors were reported by the server:
Domain: xxxxxxxxxxxx.duckdns.org
Type: connection
Detail: Failed to connect to xx.xx.xx.xxx:443 for TLS-SNI-01
challenge
To fix these errors, please make sure that your domain name was
entered correctly and the DNS A record(s) for that domain
contain(s) the right IP address. Additionally, please check that
your computer has a publicly routable IP address and that no
firewalls are preventing the server from communicating with the
client. If you're using the webroot plugin, you should also verify
that you are serving files from the webroot path you provided.
Your account credentials have been saved in your Certbot
configuration directory at /etc/letsencrypt. You should make a
secure backup of this folder now. This configuration directory will
also contain certificates and private keys obtained by Certbot so
making regular backups of this folder is ideal.