fungjj92 commented on 20 Dec 2018 •
edited
Checklist
I have verified that that issue exists against the master branch of Django REST framework.
I have searched for similar issues in both open and closed tickets and cannot find a duplicate.
This is not a usage question. (Those should be directed to the discussion group instead.)
This cannot be dealt with as a third party library. (We prefer new functionality to be in the form of third party libraries where possible.)
I have reduced the issue to the simplest possible case.
I have included a failing test as a pull request. (If you are unable to do so we can still accept the issue.)
Issue
At the top of the serializers page there is a forgettable quote by known offender of women Linus Torvalds https://www.django-rest-framework.org/api-guide/relations/
I am proposing the quote, and any others by him through the DRF, get replaced or axed altogether as to not support him. It's also inherently a mean-spirited quote.
Resolve
If you still desire a quote, here are a few I found about data structures (as is the quote I am requesting removed) from people who on a search seemed not problematic (though this is subject to change in the future as the silenced and affected speak out):
"It's easy to make mistakes that only come out much later, after you've already implemented a lot of code. You'll realize Oh I should have used a different type of data structure. Start over from scratch." - Guido Van Rossum
"It is better to have 100 functions operate on one data structure than to have 10 functions operate on 10 data structures." - Alan Perlis
"Data dominates. If you've chosen the right data structures and organized things well, the algorithms
will almost always be self-evident. Data structures, not algorithms, are central to programming." - Rob Pike
“The craft of programming begins with empathy, not formatting or languages or tools or algorithms or data structures.” - Kent Beck
You may/not notice that all these quotes are still from a homogenous group. In a quick search I could not easily find on the internet a quote from a woman or person of color on data structures but one could be picked out from a book or article on the topic.
3
1