Jaredn commented on 15 Feb 2018 •
edited
Checklist
I have verified that that issue exists against the master branch of Django REST framework.
I have searched for similar issues in both open and closed tickets and cannot find a duplicate.
This is not a usage question. (Those should be directed to the discussion group instead.)
This cannot be dealt with as a third party library. (We prefer new functionality to be in the form of third party libraries where possible.)
I have reduced the issue to the simplest possible case.
I have included a failing test as a pull request. (If you are unable to do so we can still accept the issue.)
Steps to reproduce
Use the Browsable API with TokenAuthentication and SessionAuthentication. This problem explicitly occurs with SessionAuthentication though.
Expected behavior
Forms automatically generated in the BrowsableAPI will have a CSRF Token generated along with them, such that when the form is submitted, the CSRF Token is provided and thus the form is accepted.
Actual behavior
CSRF Token is NOT generated when using the BrowsableAPIRenderer and attempting to edit an object with the auto-generated form (PUT / PATCH) results in CSRF Token Not Provided errors.
My Own Thoughts
Django 1.11.5
DRF 3.6.4
I have found a number of issues over the years that seem to state this all as true, but I can't seem to find a solution for it. Examples:
#2815 - Seems to have the same problem, tries a code fix but doesn't get merged.
#4113 - I commented here as well, but someone else that seems to have the same problem. Tom Christie also responded here.
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/django-rest-framework/j7Zi0BkMYc8 - Great Response from Tom again, but seems to talk mostly about AJAX, and I'm just using DRF's built-in BrowsableAPIRenderer
This project in particular is a few years old that I'm working on, and I could have sworn this used to work in the past. Somewhere along the line though, it seems that this functionality just stopped working and we started getting CSRF errors. I'm like 99% sure that the CSRF Token should be in the
tags when the form gets auto-generated, but it's just not there when I inspect the HTML source.
Note - that the API itself works fine when using an API Token (TokenAuthentication) which is how we use this API internally for real. But in our dev/staging environments it would be great to have the browsable API Forms be functional.
I'd love to get some feedback on potential issues, but I'm at a loss on where to go from here. I'm willing to provide settings/details if anyone is willing to help me troubleshoot.