Member
amueller commented on Aug 31, 2017 •
edited
I want more people to review code. I think the backlog in PRs is a more urgent problem then the backlog in issues.
One possibility might be a guide to reviewing code. Python has one and some further resources.
Python also now has a bot that tags issues as "need review" and once that's done as "need core contributor review". Whether that helps isn't really out yet, but having a document to link to for encouraging contributors to review would be good, I think. wdyt?
Python has this checklist:
Is it mergeable?
Did it pass the tests?
If it introduces new functionality in scripts/ is it tested?
Check for code coverage with make clean diff-cover
Is it well formatted? Look at make pep8, make diff_pylint_report,
make cppcheck, and make doc output. Use make format and manual
fixing as needed.
Did it change the command-line interface? Only additions are allowed
without a major version increment. Changing file formats also requires a
major version number increment.
Is it documented in the ChangeLog?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Changelog#Format
Was a spellchecker run on the source code and documentation after
changes were made?
Do the changes respect streaming IO? (Are they
tested for streaming IO?)
Is the Copyright year up to date?
Maybe we can adjust that for us to something like
Is it mergeable, i.e. has no merge conflicts?
Did it pass the continuous integration tests?
If it introduces new functionality is it tested? Are all lines tested (check codecov or locally).
If it introduces new functionality, is it documented in the user guide and the examples?
If it fixes a bug, does it introduce a regression test?
Did it change any behavior that's not a bugfix? - No behavior that's not a bug should be changed without a deprecation cycle.
Is it documented in the ChangeLog?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Changelog#Format
Was a spellchecker run on the source code and documentation after
changes were made?
Did you proof-read and understand the documentation?
Does the documentation render properly?
Do plots look good in the online rendering?
👍 3